### Data Structures 1 (Linear Data Structure)
- Way to organize data to use it effectively.
- Using the right data structure reduce time complexity and sometime reduce space complexity.


#### Linked List
- Concept of Node - A node is a class of its own, with two general properties.A value(s) and reference(s) -(also called pointer(s))- to another node.
- Linked List is simply a group of nodes in a sequence.
- Each node contains a value and reference to the next node.
- Linked List have several methods:
- * Access - Time Complexity - O(n)
- * search - find a value in a collection  - Time Complexity - O(n)
- * insert - adds a node at a specific location - Time Complexity - O(1)
- * remove - delete a specific node  - Time Complexity - O(1)

##### Advantages
- Simple to Conceptualize
- Constant time deletion
- Constant time insertion
- Dynamically expand and contract

##### Disadvantages
- Extra memory to store pointers
- Accessing nodes must be read in order
- Cannot nevigate backwards

- [Linked List Implementation](03.Data-Structures/01.lli.js)

#### Stacks
A linear data structure thatadds and removes elements using a Last in first out rule.
- can be created using a class
- stack can be stored using a linked list or an array.

##### Methods

- push - add elements to the stack. - Time Complexity - O(1)
- pop - removes and returns last elements from a stack - Time Complexity - O(1)
- peek - returns the last element but does not remove it from the stack.  - Time Complexity - O(1)

##### Advantages
- Great for enforcing LIFO
- Able to dynamically expand and contract

##### Disadvantages
- Restricted access to value
- Obsolete in some modern languages (Ruby, Python, Javascript)

- [Stack Implementation](03.Data-Structures/03.si.js)

#### Queue
A linear data structure that adds and removes elements using a first in first out rule.
- queue can be stored using a linked list or an array.

##### Methods
- enqueue - add element to the queue - Time Complexity - O(1)
- dequeue - removes and return element from the the queue - Time Complexity - O(1)
- peek - returns the first element but does not remove it.  - Time Complexity - O(1)

##### Advantages
- Great for enforcing FIFO.
- Able to dynamically expand and contract

##### Disadvantages
- Restricted access to value
- Obsolete in some modern languages (Ruby, Python, Javascript)

- [Queue Implementation](03.Data-Structures/02.qi.js)

Additional Resources:

- [Princeton Intro to Stacks](http://introcs.cs.princeton.edu/java/43stack/)
- [Visualized Sorting Algorithms](http://visualgo.net/list.html)
- [Visualized Queue w/ Linked List](https://www.cs.usfca.edu/~galles/visualization/QueueLL.html)
- [Visualized Stack w/ Linked List](https://www.cs.usfca.edu/~galles/visualization/StackLL.html)

