#### What is Rails?
Its a web application development framework. It allows to write less code and make programming web applications easier by making assumptions.

#### How will you check rails version on your machine?
```
rails -v
```

#### What is the purpose of config/routes.rb?
This is the applications routing file and holds entries that tell rails how to connect incoming requests to controllers and actions.

#### When a form is submitted, the fields of the form are sent to Rails as parameters. How to reference them just to inspect simple text?
These parameters can then be referenced inside the controller actions, typically to perform a particular task.
```
def create
    render plain: params[:article].inspect
end
```

#### When do we get ActiveModel::ForbiddenAttributesError
Rails has several security features, this error is part of one of the security feature.
This is called strong parameters, which requires us to tell Rails exactly which parameters are allowed into our controller actions.

params.require().permit() will make sure that only the fields which are permitted to store can be saved into database and not some fields generated by some malicious code.

#### What is pluralize?
Pluralize is a rails helper that takes a number and a string as its arguments. If the number is greater than one, the string will be automatically pluralized.

#### How to manipulate errors in css?
Rails automatically wraps fields that contain an error with a div with class field_with_errors. You can define a css rule to make them standout.

#### When do we use partials in rails?
We use partials to remove code duplication in view files.

#### If article has many comments and you destroy an article, how to make sure that dependent articles be also deleted.
Rails allows to use the dependent option of an association to achieve this.

```
class Article < ActiveRecord::Base
  has_many :comments, dependent: :destroy
  validates :title, presence: true,
                    length: { minimum: 5 }
end
```
#### How to create new project with postgresql

rails new myapp --database=postgresql

#### How to reset DB in

#### How to access Images in asset/images
In Rails 3.1 and above you just get rid of the 'images' part of the path. So an image that lives in /assets/images/example.png will actually be accessible in a get request at this url - /assets/example.png

#### How do I reverse a rails generate?
Use command:
rails destroy controller <controller name>

